---
id: RulesEngineGetLastGeneratedGuid
---

# RulesEngine.GetLastGeneratedGuid



> [!NOTE]
> This article is about the **GetLastGeneratedGuid** method of the [RulesEngine internal component](/docs/Extensions/RulesEngine%20internal%20component).

## **RulesEngine.GetLastGeneratedGuid**

Gets the GUID value generated most recently for a column, if such a GUID value has been generated in the current session.

For each record created in a table, a GUID is generated for a column if the column is based on a domain with "Generate Unique Values = GUID" setting. Typically, the column is set to Input Allowed = No.

Returns a column value (a GUID).

This method does not heed any GUIDs generated by calling the GUID() SQL function.

*Syntax*

```sql
SELECT RulesEngine.GetLastGeneratedGuid()
```

*Explanation*

If a table contains a column for which the domain has the "Generate Unique Values = GUID" setting, each time a new row is INSERTed into this table, the Rules Engine automatically generates a new GUID for that key column.

If you are in client/server mode, you can see this new value directly after INSERTing the row. This behaviour is referred to as "update-notify".

But if you are using the Remote Rules Service API or the Rules Service, the underlying protocol (ODBC or JDBC) which allows you to communicate with the Rules Engine does not provide an "update-notify" mechanism, so that you cannot see the newly generated key value. This makes it difficult to retrieve the row that you have just inserted. The RulesEngine.GetLastGeneratedGuid() method provides the solution for this problem.

Only the session's MOST RECENTLY GENERATED value is available.

 